---
title: Fall 2017 Cook ACT Court Graduation
event_blurb: >
  Adult Redeploy Illinois (ARI) Access to Community Treatment (ACT) Drug Court, November 17, 2017 at
  11:00AM in Courtroom 201 of the George Leighton Criminal Courthouse located at 2600 South California
  Avenue in Chicago, Illinois. This event will recognize men and women who have successfully completed
  the ACT Court program.
event_start: 2017-11-17
id: d3d52402-c538-4957-a933-88b700813e14
tags:
  - access-to-treatment
  - act
  - adult-redeploy-illinois
  - ari
  - cook-county
  - drug-court
  - graduation
---
Dear Honored Guest: 

It is my honor to invite you to the graduation ceremony of the Adult Redeploy Illinois (ARI) Access to Community Treatment (ACT) Drug Court, November 17, 2017 at 11:00AM in Courtroom 201 of the George Leighton Criminal Courthouse located at 2600 South California Avenue in Chicago, Illinois. This event will recognize men and women who have successfully completed the ACT Court program. 

The ACT Court diverts high-risk and high-need people from the Illinois Department of Corrections by connecting super-utilizers of the health care system to substance abuse and other behavioral health treatment providers in our community. Through use of evidence-based policies and procedures, the ACT Court supports rehabilitation in a community setting, and reduces the use of incarceration. By agreeing to the ACT Court, participants voluntarily plead guilty and receive 18 months of probation but may graduate as early as 12 months if they successfully complete the four required phases. The average ACT Court participant is 49 years old and has a history of at least 28 arrests with 5 felony convictions. The ACT Court is compromised about 91% African American participants and 9% White participants. About 40% of ACT Court participants have a 12th grade education, diploma, or high school equivalent. 

The ACT Court utilizes a holistic approach in developing reentry plans for participants, which include residential and outpatient substance abuse treatment; housing and recovery home placement; support group linkage; job training; and medical, psychiatric or other counseling and treatment referrals. Through a team approach the ACT Court develops a personal relationship with each participant based on trust, respect, encouragement, and the belief in that person’s ability to be successful in their recovery. Nationwide, 75% of Drug Court graduates remain arrest-free at least two years after leaving the program. 

The ACT Court represents a proven budget solution for Cook County and the State of Illinois. Our drug court is truly making a difference, from reducing drug use and recidivism, to reuniting families and making our communities safer. By transforming the lives of our participants, we are saving our state valuable resources. Through the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA), ARI funds the ACT Court and other similar diversion programs across Illinois has saved the state $70 million in avoided incarceration costs since 2011. Last year in Cook County, the ACT Court spent approximately $4,700 per participant, compared with the approximately $22,000 per-capita annual cost of housing an inmate in an Illinois prison. In return for ARI funding, the ACT Court commits to reduce the number of offenders they send to state prison by at least 25 percent. These cost savings reflect reduced prison costs, reduced revolving-door arrests and trials, and reduced victimization.

Thank you for your service to our community and for your consideration of this invitation. We look forward to introducing you to our graduates and sharing more about the possibilities made available through the ACT Court. To RSVP, please email me at kimberly.chorney@gmail.com. If you have any questions you can contact me at: 773-674-3090.

Sincerely, 

Kimberly Chorney, LCPC, CADC
Resource  & Treatment Coordinator
