---
title: 'Performance Incentive Funding For Prison Diversion: An Implementation Evaluation of the Winnebago County Adult Redeploy Illinois Program'
intro_image: /assets/img/ari-splash-01.jpg
intro_image_caption: Phasellus sed consequat nulla, eget scelerisque mi.
short_description: >
  September 27, 2017...ICJIA researchers conducted an implementation evaluation of the Adult Redeploy
  Illinois-supported Winnebago County Drug Court.
abstract: >
  ICJIA researchers conducted an implementation evaluation of the Adult Redeploy Illinois-supported
  Winnebago County Drug Court. Probation administrative data, criminal history data, interviews with
  program stakeholders and participants informed the evaluation and researchers developed implications
  for policy and practice for this and any other county or municipality interested in implementing a
  drug court.
add_dropcap: true
id: 415c34e8-0ec6-4e68-a09a-5a8e932beaf9
author:
  - illinois-criminal-justice-information-authority
tags:
  - drug-court
  - adult-redeploy-illinois
  - ari
  - implementation
  - probation
  - winnebago-county
---
Research demonstrates the effectiveness of drug courts, which have been linked to a reduction of recidivism rates among participants. A meta-analytic review of 154 drug courts, including 92 adult drug courts, conducted by Mitchell, Wilson, Eggers, & Mackenzie found that the majority of adult drug court participants had lower rates of recidivism compared to non-participants.  Drug court participants had a recidivism rate of 38 percent compared to 50 percent for non-participants. A more recent study found significantly lower rates of recidivism for drug court graduates: 21 percent compared to 60 percent for those who were terminated from a drug court program. 
Adult Redeploy Illinois (ARI) awards funds to counties to divert adult non-violent individuals from state prisons by developing and implementing evidence-based supervision programs which are linked to treatment and supportive services in their communities. ARI is a performance incentive funding program whereby continued funding is based on meeting performance measures including a reduction in the number of prison admissions from a defined eligible target population. A monetary penalty may be assessed by the ARI Oversight Board when a program fails to meet its target reduction.

This report presents an implementation evaluation of the ARI-funded Winnebago County Drug Court (WCDC) using qualitative and quantitative approaches. It covers the initial pilot phase of the program, which ran from October 1, 2011 to December 31, 2012. Data collection included four components: (1) interviews with staff and stakeholders, (2) interviews with probationers, (3) analysis of program administrative data, and (4) criminal history record information.

[View the rest of the overview and the full report here.](http://www.icjia.state.il.us/articles/performance-incentive-funding-for-prison-diversion-an-implementation-evaluation-of-the-winnebago-county-adult-redeploy-illinois-program)



