---
title: Veterans component to be included in Mental Health Court
intro_image: /assets/img/gavel.jpg
short_description: >
  The Eighth Judicial Circuit, which includes Adams, Brown and Pike counties, will incorporate a
  veterans component in its proposed Mental Health Court.
abstract: >
  The Eighth Judicial Circuit, which includes Adams, Brown and Pike counties, will incorporate a
  veterans component in its proposed Mental Health Court.
id: d220f164-92c7-400b-9dee-19af0d2328c9
author:
  - matt-hopf
  - herald-whig
tags:
  - adult-redeploy-illinois
  - ari
  - veterans
  - mental-health
  - problem-solving-court
  - probation
---
QUINCY -- A requirement that all judicial circuits in the state of Illinois establish a veterans treatment court will be covered through another problem-solving court.

The Eighth Judicial Circuit, which includes Adams, Brown and Pike counties, will incorporate a veterans component in its proposed Mental Health Court.

Veterans treatment courts allow veterans who were honorably discharged to plead guilty in exchange for a probation sentence, which are typically for lower level felonies. The sentence requires frequent court visits and mental health or substance abuse treatment.

Veterans can also apply to have their records expunged upon completing the sentence.

Judge Scott Larson said like Drug Court and Mental Health Court, the veterans treatment court component would look at providing access to substance abuse and mental health treatment to help them get on the right track.

"We just have to have a specific plan on how to address their issues," Larson said. "It's going to be (post-traumatic stress disorder) and maybe some substance abuse issues. They have a vast array of services available to them that sometimes they don't know."

He said any veterans who enter the court would be assessed by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs through its Veterans Justice Outreach program, which works to assist justice-involved veterans in getting treatment for mental and physical problems.

"There are services out there, and a lot of times they just don't know it and just need to be connected," Larson said.

The formation of the Mental Health Court was announced in January.

Larson said the application has been submitted to the Illinois Supreme Court for certification.

"We've got all these agencies that are spending a lot of time and resources wanting to do this," he said. "Everyone is looking forward to this. We've been waiting, and we just want to get it started."

Adams County was awarded a $29,136 grant through Adult Redeploy Illinois for the initial planning and implementation of the Mental Health Court.

The agency established monetary incentives to jurisdictions for programs that reduce the number of nonviolent offenders sent to the Illinois Department of Corrections without hurting public safety.

Stakeholders in the Mental Health Court include representative in the Adams County judiciary, the state's attorney's office, the public defender's office, probation officers, law enforcement and treatment providers.

The Associated Press ?contributed to this report